#Chapter 1
1.1 - The Tower
Flows are abstracted by Apex
Apex is abstracted by Java
Java is abstracted by machine code
Machine code is abstracted by transistors
transistors are abstracted by physics

1.2 - Spot the Level
I'll add a avalidation rule to block discounts over 20% - Configurator
I'll write a trigger that checks the discount before insert - Developer
I want to know how many quote lines arrive per transaction
    and whether this rule will ever need to consult another 
    object; that determines whether this belongs in a 
    validation rule, a trigger, or a CPQ price rule - Enginner

1.3 Break your program deliberately
Remove a quote - Syntax Error (Unterminated String lateral)
Misspell print - Name Error (prit is not defined. Did you mean print?)
Remove a bracket - Syntax Error ("(" was never closed)

1.4 The Salesforce Connect ( Find one thing you did at work this week in 
Salesforce and write two sentences on what you think is happening underneath it.)
- Salesforce records are abstracted by the UI display covering 
the tables (rows and columns) they belong to.

Reflection question. 
What's one Salesforce behaviour that has genuinely mystified you in your 
first six months?
- Immediate loading of records stored on salesforce servers


#Chapter 2
2.1 
What is a CPU?
- A group of components consisting of transistors, that 
execute instructions.

What is the difference between an interpreter and a compiler?
- An interpreter reads each line of code and runs it before 
moving to the next line of code while a compiler first
translates/reads the whole code before running it.

why salesforce have governor limits?
- Governor limits prevent a single transaction of code execution
from using up all the resources on the platform that are shared
 amongst other salesforce users.

2.2 Binary by hand

Binary Place Value Breakdown of 1000
1 is in the eights place (2³ = 8)
0 is in the fours place (2² = 4)
0 is in the twos place (2¹ = 2)
0 is in the ones place (2⁰ = 1)

Conversion Math
(1*8)+(0*4)+(0*2)+(0*1) = 8

1010 => 10
10001 => 17


2.3 Read the chef's recipe
Step 2 fetches data
step 6 does the multiplication

2.4 - The tower narration
- When i type "System.debug('hello')" on the debug log,
i'm instructing apex to display the arg onto the log.

The request is  sent to the salesforce servers, 
code compiles if no errors, the CPU executes the 
task within the governor limits through a series 
of switching transistors on and off.

2.5 - Limit archaeology
AsyncException 
This exception ran because i poorly designed code
to run in the background when resources are available.
This limit was protecting the CPU and over use of
salesforce shared resources. 
- The poor design was setting up code to run in the future
which would trigger other code to run in the future as well.
- The right design was queueing my code to runwhen resources
 are available.

Reflection question
- I imagined deploying code... nothing







#CHAPTER 3

Static typing checks types before the program runs; dynamic typing checks while it runs. 
The first catches errors earlier; the second lets you move faster. 
Apex is static, Python and JavaScript are dynamic. 

Let the server do the money maths. 
Apex computes in Decimal, JavaScript displays the result. 
Put the calculation where the safe type lives. 

Half_Up (2.5 => 3.0) (round to whole number)
- 3.5 => 4.0
- 4.5 => 5.0

Half_even (2.5 => 2.0) (round to even number)
- 3.5 => 4.0
- 4.5 => 4.0
- 5.5 => 6.0

3.7 
Variables
- A name you attach to a piece of data so you can refer to it later.
E.g a luggage tag doesn't contain the suitcase but points at it. 
Put the tag on a Different suitcase and it points to another luggage.

Types
- It tells you what kind of dat you're holding and 
what you're allowed to do with it. 
(text) string, (number) integer, (true/false) boolean, 
(numbers with a fractional value) float, null - is a value, not a type

Static vs Dynamic typing 
- (when the value gets checked)
Static - checked before the code runs (Apex, C#, Java) - Mistakes caught at compile time
Dynamic - checked during runtime (Python, JavaScript) - Mistakes caught at runtime

Floating point
- A way of sorting numbers with a fractional part (The decimal point being to move / flaot)
You get approximates and not the exact number.

Why Decimal exists
- Because computers store numbers in binary (on or off).
Some numbers have no exact binary form e.g 0.1, 1/3
Decimal is the attempt to capture the closest true value
e.g 1/3 => 0.333333..., 
Decimal stores base-10 digits exactly 0.1 is 0.1.
Explains why salesforce fields are Decimal and not Double 

3.3
The contamination trap
- Decimal is exact, but only about what you hand it.
Hand it a float and the error is already baked in

from decimal import Decimal
Decimal(0.1) #0.1000000000000000055511151231257827...
Decimal("0.1") #0.1

- If data is coming in from in from JSON, a CSV, an API response
and if it passes through a float on the way in, quoting it later doesn't help.

3.4
Type detective 
- Open any Apex class at work. Find five variable declarations and write down 
each one's type and why that type (why Id not String? why Decimal not Integer?).

3.5
What plausible calculator-and-hand process turns 20% of £1,200 into £239.99? 
- Someone rounded off the original value (like £1199.99) to £1200.
The calculation of the 20% was instead of made on the original value.

Reflection question. 
Salesforce chose static typing and platform-wide Decimal currency — two 
protections you've been living inside, unaware, for six months. 
What does that suggest about how much other protective engineering 
is embedded in the platform's design choices? Keep the 
answer; this question becomes a running theme.